Let's go to SearchParams.
So SearchParams.
Let's rename that Tsx.
So, up here we're gonna have
to import FunctionComponent.
Okay, from here,
we're also going to have to import.
Nope, not that, that's fine.
From APIResponse, import
PetAPIResponse Animal and
Pet from ./APIResponseTypes.
So first of all ANIMALS is
obviously an Animal array.
Now we could have left it, it was
technically an array of string as well.
But now since we have an animal
type we might as well use it here.
SearchParams, we have to tell
that it is a function component,
That has RouteComponentProps.
So we can get that from reach-router.
Now I don't think we actually
use those anywhere in here.
You could have left those off,
and that's totally fine.
But you might as well put them in there.
It is up there, because technically
SearchParams is a route.
That's where that's coming from.
Okay.
This animal here is always
gonna be an animal.
So as Animal.
Pets here is always a pet array.
So you can put pet there.
It's gonna be requestPets for
the same thing requestsPets is going
to return a promise, and it's like,
hey, I don't like it when you
don't do something with promises.
So we're gonna say void, requestPets.
Okay, same thing here void requestsPets.
Then in the select here,
the one thing that's gonna be like hey,
you told me this is an animal.
I'm not positive these strings I'm
getting back are gonna be animals.
You just gotta be like, now I promise
you they are gonna be animals.
So as Animal, as Animal.
And I think that's it for this one too.
Cool.
We're now in the TypeScript four,
we got one more step here and
then we are totally done
retyping this entire project.
Let's go to results.
Rename this to be, Tsx,
did I miss something in here?
PetAPIResponse and messages.
Not used that anywhere.
Where's this upset?
I missed this.
In SearchParams, line 26,
just got to make this a as PetAPIResponse.
I think you have to, that's what I missed.
And then PetAPIResponse.
And then now it's happy.
So make sure on line 26 here you
type this as a PetAPIResponse.
Then you have to import that at the top.
And then that will make this happy.
The reason I was able to
tell is you can see here,
files that have errors in them turn red,
right?
So we just turned results to tsx.
And there's a bunch of errors in there.
So that's what I was looking at.
All right, this one should go pretty fast.
This is Results.tsx.
We're going to Import FunctionComponent
From react and we're going to import and
here we have a problem.
I would like to import Pet from
./APIResponseTypes but
we have a problem here.
You can't have a PetComponent and
a PetType, that's why a lot of people like
to put IPet in front of these so
there's never a collision there.
But I'm just gonna say we're
gonna import this as PetType, and
then you can get around it.
So here this is easy we just
go function components.
And it's gonna take, PetType array.
You need a colon there.
So imported pet is PetType,
the FunctionComponent from react.
We made this a FunctionComponent
it has PetTypes, and
this just made everything happy here.
So this is what I wanted to show you.
Let's say I forgot to put name in here,
and I just hit x like this,
it's gonna say, hey, I expected name
here and you're not giving it to me.
This is actually probably one of my
favorite parts of using TypeScript and
react together,
is it makes sure that I'm using every
component correctly with its props.
Same with its state, and context and
all those kinds of things.
It just makes sure like the, I know that
your child's component is expecting this
and I'm going to make sure
that you give it to it.
Now some of you might ask, and
I haven't shown you anywhere in here, but
let's just take a look at
what that would look like.
Let's say this pet.tsx has
an optional one called color, right?
And that's a string.
If I put it like this, it's going to
expect that and it must get that color.
But if I put a question mark is,
it's now an optional one, right?.
So if I go in here to results in it,
I don't give it color,
totally fine if I do,
It's gonna say okay, that's fine too.
But like if I try and give us something
else, like, I don't know, something it's
gonna say, hey, you're giving it
something and it doesn't expect that.
So the contract always
has to be fulfilled.
You can't give it too much and
you can't give it to little Okay,
let's get rid of that.
All right, and so now for
the grand finale,
the most difficult one to do yet, but.
Bear with me for like the next 20 minutes.
And we'll definitely get through this.
We're gonna do App.js and
we're gonna rename this to App.tsx.
I'm just kidding, we're done.
We don't have to do anything here.
So SearchParams, why is that upset?
Type is missing for that, yeah, this is
actually a mistake that we made here.
I think it's cuz of this.
This actually isn't
expecting route components.
So we can actually get rid of that and
save that.
And now if we go back to App.tsx,
now it's gonna be fun.
Cuz before we were telling us like,
hey, this is a route,
it expects route components.
And despite the fact that it's actually
true, it is a route component.
We're not actually using any of that.
So it's gonna be like, hey,
you said that these were gonna come here.
I don't see how they're gonna get here.
And the way you would do that is you'd
have to use something like with router or
you'd have to use something like with
router to inject those things in there and
we're just don't need to do that.
So we're not going to.
So yeah, sometimes you want to get like
a really aggressive with your typing's is
like I know this is this and
I'm definitely gonna do this.
But that means you have to make sure that
all that data gets Marshall through or
TypeScript is not gonna believe you.
Okay, you and
I in the span of probably what?
45 minutes to an hour or
something like that,
converted this entire
project to TypeScript.
So you can see it's a bit
of an undertaking now, but
I promise you it's worth it.
Like once you have your
entire project in TypeScript,
it's just really easy cuz I
can come in here to modal and
I can say, import Pet from ./Pet.
And now I can come in here, and
it just gives you lots of really useful
It'll start giving you like type hints and
stuff like that.
It'll start getting very immediate
errors like hey, you did this and
you expected this and this isn't gonna
happen, and this might be normal and
it saves you from a ton of bugs.
Like people like to say that
it prevents you from writing,
everyone's favorite
examples this const x = 5,
5.to or sorry x.toUpper string or
Uppercase.
That's what everyone loves to say like,
look, it prevents you from writing this
error is like I typically do
not have this error, right?
I don't typically try and
call toUpperCase on numbers.
I generally have enough discipline that I
don't call those kinds of things, right?
And TypeScript does prevent you
from doing things like this.
The real benefit of TypeScript is it
actually helps you write your code faster
because you basically get inline
documentation while you're typing,
because they have all
the TypeScript coming with it.
And you can even get like a point
further where you can actually include
documentation.
So if I start writing
something with Pet.tsx,
you can actually inline my
documentation using js doc, right?
So cuz TypeScript can read
js doc I'm a big fan.
I use it on any project that I intend
on maintaining longer than two weeks.
That's kind of my rule of thumb.
If I'm just like knocking
out something really fast,
I'm gonna use JavaScript cuz I
don't need it to be good code.
But if it's gonna live longer than two
weeks, then it needs to be okay code,
because I'm going to come back and
longer than two weeks and
forget everything that I did.
And TypeScript just
helps me read that back.
Okay, lastly, well first of all,
let's go ahead and
make sure that we fixed all of
our errors here that we have.
If we say npm run lint.
Yeah.
So one thing that we have to do is we
have to go back to our package JSON and
we have to add ts and
tsx to both format and lint,
cuz now everything is called that.
So now if we do that again and
say npm run lint, No linting errors.
That's really good.
Let's add another thing
here in our scripts.
Let's add one called typecheck.
And this is just gonna be tsc--noEmit.
If you do tsc without noEmit,
it's actually going to rewrite your
files into JavaScript for you.
So we're just like doing noEmit.
It's just basically hey,
typecheck, but don't rewrite it.
So let's try that again and
that's gonna lint it, that's fine.
Let's do npm run typecheck.
So we still have one in here.
Let's go fix that.
That's gonna be in.
And this is what they look like.
So this is good for you to see that.
So let's go check out carousel.tsx, And
it is upset about this, looks like.
So I think we just need to
check here to make sure that,
let me go back to the this is in carousel.
So it's probably good for you to see like
how you fix errors when they actually
arise here from your type checking.
You just need to check
if index is a thing.
So you have to say if
event.target.dataset.index,
And if I just put that in there
then that should fix everything.
And the next question might ask me is like
why wasn't VS code showing that to me in
the first place?
It just lags behind sometimes.
VS codes trying really hard
not to get in your way.
And so it'll sometimes suspend that
type checking in the background.
So that you don't necessarily see it.
That's how you always wanna check
things before you check them in.
And now you can see I fixed
my last TypeScript error.